n of light; the precision with which the soul is mentioned who
chose the twentieth lot; the passing remarks that there was no definite
character among the souls, and that the souls which had chosen ill
blamed any one rather than themselves; or that some of the souls drank
more than was necessary of the waters of Forgetfulness, while Er himself
was hindered from drinking; the desire of Odysseus to rest at last,
unlike the conception of him in Dante and Tennyson; the feigned
ignorance of how Er returned to the body, when the other souls went
shooting like stars to their birth,--add greatly to the probability of
the narrative. They are such touches of nature as the art of Defoe
might have introduced when he wished to win credibility for marvels and
apparitions.

*****

There still remain to be considered some points which have been
intentionally reserved to the end: (1) the Janus-like character of the
Republic, which presents two faces--one an Hellenic state, the other a
kingdom of philosophers. Connected with the latter of the two aspects
are (2) the paradoxes of the Republic, as they have been termed by
Morgenstern: (a) the community of property; (b) of families; (c) the
rule of philosophers; (d) the analogy of the individual and the State,
which, like some other analogies in the Republic, is carried too far. We
may then proceed to consider (3) the subject of education as conceived
by Plato, bringing together in a general view the education of youth
and the education of after-life; (4) we may note further some essential
differences between ancient and modern politics which are suggested by
the Republic; (5) we may compare the Politicus and the Laws; (6) we may
observe the influence exercised by Plato on his imitators; and (7)
take occasion to consider the nature and value of political, and (8) of
religious ideals.

1. Plato expressly says that he is intending to found an Hellenic State
(Book V). Many of his regulations are characteristically Spartan; such
as the prohibition of gold and silver, the common meals of the men, the
military training of the youth, the gymnastic exercises of the women.
The life of Sparta was the life of a camp (Laws), enforced even more
rigidly in time of peace than in war; the citizens of Sparta, like
Plato's, were forbidden to trade--they were to be soldiers and not
shopkeepers. Nowhere else in Greece was the individual so completely
subjected to the State; the time when he was to marry, the education of
his children, the clothes which he was to wear, the food which he was
to eat, were all prescribed by law. Some of the best enactments in the
Republic, such as the reverence to be paid to parents and elders,
and some of the worst, such as the exposure of deformed children, are
borrowed from the practice of Sparta. The encouragement of friendships
between men and youths, or of men with one another, as affording
incentives to bravery, is also Spartan; in Sparta too a nearer approach
was made than in any other Greek State to equality of the sexes, and
to community of property; and while there was probably less of
licentiousness in the sense of immorality, the tie of marriage was
regarded more lightly than in the rest of Greece. The 'suprema lex'
was the preservation of the family, and the interest of the State. The
coarse strength of a military government was not favourable to purity
and refinement; and the excessive strictness of some regulations seems
to have produced a reaction. Of all Hellenes the Spartans were most
accessible to bribery; several of the greatest of them might be
described in the words of Plato as having a 'fierce secret longing
after gold and silver.' Though not in the strict sense communists, the
principle of communism was maintained among them in their division of
lands, in their common meals, in their slaves, and in the free use of
one another's goods. Marriage was a public institution: and the women
were educated by the State, and sang and danced in public with the men.

Many traditions were preserved at Sparta of the severity with which the
magistrates had maintained the primitive rule of music and poetry; as in
the Republic of Plato, the new-fangled poet was to be expelled. Hymns
to the Gods, which are the only kind of music admitted into the ideal
State, were the only kind which was permitted at Sparta. The Spartans,
though an unpoetical race, were nevertheless lovers of poetry; they had
been stirred by the Elegiac strains of Tyrtaeus, they had crowded around
Hippias to hear his recitals of Homer; but in this they resembled the
citizens of the timocratic rather than of the ideal State. The council
of elder men also corresponds to the Spartan gerousia; and the freedom
with which they are permitted to judge about matters of detail agrees
with what we are told of that institution. Once more, the military rule
of not spoiling the dead or offering arms at the temples; the moderation
in the pursuit of enemies; the importance attached to the physical
well-being of the citizens; the use of warfare for the sake of defence
rather than of aggression--are features probably suggested by the spirit
and practice of Sparta.

To the Spartan type the ideal State reverts in the first decline; and
the character of the individual timocrat is borrowed from the Spartan
citizen. The love of Lacedaemon not only affected Plato and Xenophon,
but was shared by many undistinguished Athenians; there they seemed to
find a principle which was wanting in their own democracy. The (Greek)
of the Spartans attracted them, that is to say, not the goodness
of their laws, but the spirit of order and loyalty which prevailed.
Fascinated by the idea, citizens of Athens would imitate the
Lacedaemonians in their dress and manners; they were known to the
contemporaries of Plato as 'the persons who had their ears bruised,'
like the Roundheads of the Commonwealth. The love of another church
or country when seen at a distance only, the longing for an imaginary
simplicity in civilized times, the fond desire of a past which never has
been, or of a future which never will be,--these are aspirations of the
human mind which are often felt among ourselves. Such feelings meet with
a response in the Republic of Plato.

But there are other features of the Platonic Republic, as, for example,
the literary and philosophical education, and the grace and beauty
of life, which are the reverse of Spartan. Plato wishes to give his
citizens a taste of Athenian freedom as well as of Lacedaemonian
discipline. His individual genius is purely Athenian, although in theory
he is a lover of Sparta; and he is something more than either--he has
also a true Hellenic feeling. He is desirous of humanizing the wars of
Hellenes against one another; he acknowledges that the Delphian God is
the grand hereditary interpreter of all Hellas. The spirit of harmony
and the Dorian mode are to prevail, and the whole State is to have an
external beauty which is the reflex of the harmony within. But he
has not yet found out the truth which he afterwards enunciated in the
Laws--that he was a better legislator who made men to be of one mind,
than he who trained them for war. The citizens, as in other Hellenic
States, democratic as well as aristocratic, are really an upper class;
for, although no mention is made of slaves, the lower classes are
allowed to fade away into the distance, and are represented in the
individual by the passions. Plato has no idea either of a social State
in which all classes are harmonized, or of a federation of Hellas or
the world in which different nations or States have a place. His city
is equipped for war rather than for peace, and this would seem to be
justified by the ordinary condition of Hellenic States. The myth of the
earth-born men is an embodiment of the orthodox tradition of Hellas,
and the allusion to the four ages of the world is also sanctioned by
the authority of Hesiod and the poets. Thus we see that the Republic is
partly founded on the ideal of the old Greek polis, partly on the actual
circumstances of Hellas in that age. Plato, like the old painters,
retains the traditional form, and like them he has also a vision of a
city in the clouds.

There is yet another thread which is interwoven in the texture of the
work; for the Republic is not only a Dorian State, but a Pythagorean
league. The 'way of life' which was connected with the name of
Pythagoras, like the Catholic monastic orders, showed the power which
the mind of an individual might exercise over his contemporaries, and
may have naturally suggested to Plato the possibility of reviving such
'mediaeval institutions.' The Pythagoreans, like Plato, enforced a rule
of life and a moral and intellectual training. The influence ascribed to
music, which to us seems exaggerated, is also a Pythagorean feature; it
is not to be regarded as representing the real influence of music in
the Greek world. More nearly than any other government of Hellas, the
Pythagorean league of three hundred was an aristocracy of virtue. For
once in the history of mankind the philosophy of order or (Greek),
expressing and consequently enlisting on its side the combined
endeavours of the better part of the people, obtained the management of
public affairs and held possession of it for a considerable time (until
about B.C. 500). Probably only in States prepared by Dorian institutions
would such a league have been possible. The rulers, like Plato's
(Greek), were required to submit to a severe training in order to
prepare the way for the education of the other members of the community.
Long after the dissolution of the Order, eminent Pythagoreans, such as
Archytas of Tarentum, retained their political influence over the cities
of Magna Graecia. There was much here that was suggestive to the kindred
spirit of Plato, who had doubtless meditated deeply on the 'way of life
of Pythagoras' (Rep.) and his followers. Slight traces of Pythagoreanism
are to be found in the mystical number of the State, in the number which
expresses the interval between the king and the tyrant, in the doctrine
of transmigration, in the music of the spheres, as well as in the great
though secondary importance ascribed to mathematics in education.

But as in his philosophy, so also in the form of his State, he goes far
beyond the old Pythagoreans. He attempts a task really impossible, which
is to unite the past of Greek history with the future of philosophy,
analogous to that other impossibility, which has often been the dream
of Christendom, the attempt to unite the past history of Europe with
the kingdom of Christ. Nothing actually existing in the world at all
resembles Plato's ideal State; nor does he himself imagine that such
a State is possible. This he repeats again and again; e.g. in the
Republic, or in the Laws where, casting a glance back on the Republic,
he admits that the perfect state of communism and philosophy was
impossible in his own age, though still to be retained as a pattern.
The same doubt is implied in the earnestness with which he argues in the
Republic that ideals are none the worse because they cannot be realized
in fact, and in the chorus of laughter, which like a breaking wave will,
as he anticipates, greet the mention of his proposals; though like
other writers of fiction, he uses all his art to give reality to his
inventions. When asked how the ideal polity can come into being, he
answers ironically, 'When one son of a king becomes a philosopher'; he
designates the fiction of the earth-born men as 'a noble lie'; and when
the structure is finally complete, he fairly tells you that his Republic
is a vision only, which in some sense may have reality, but not in the
vulgar one of a reign of philosophers upon earth. It has been said that
Plato flies as well as walks, but this falls short of the truth; for he
flies and walks at the same time, and is in the air and on firm ground
in successive instants.

Niebuhr has asked a trifling question, which may be briefly noticed in
this place--Was Plato a good citizen? If by this is meant, Was he loyal
to Athenian institutions?--he can hardly be said to be the friend of
democracy: but neither is he the friend of any other existing form of
government; all of them he regarded as 'states of faction' (Laws); none
attained to his ideal of a voluntary rule over voluntary subjects, which
seems indeed more nearly to describe democracy than any other; and the
worst of them is tyranny. The truth is, that the question has hardly any
meaning when applied to a great philosopher whose writings are not meant
for a particular age and country, but for all time and all mankind. The
decline of Athenian politics was probably the motive which led Plato to
frame an ideal State, and the Republic may be regarded as reflecting the
departing glory of Hellas. As well might we complain of St. Augustine,
whose great work 'The City of God' originated in a similar motive, for
not being loyal to the Roman Empire. Even a nearer parallel might be
afforded by the first Christians, who cannot fairly be charged with
being bad citizens because, though 'subject to the higher powers,' they
were looking forward to a city which is in heaven.

2. The idea of the perfect State is full of paradox when judged of
according to the ordinary notions of mankind. The paradoxes of one age
have been said to become the commonplaces of the next; but the
paradoxes of Plato are at least as paradoxical to us as they were to his
contemporaries. The modern world has either sneered at them as absurd,
or denounced them as unnatural and immoral; men have been pleased to
find in Aristotle's criticisms of them the anticipation of their own
good sense. The wealthy and cultivated classes have disliked and also
dreaded them; they have pointed with satisfaction to the failure of
efforts to realize them in practice. Yet since they are the thoughts of
one of the greatest of human intelligences, and of one who had done
most to elevate morality and religion, they seem to deserve a better
treatment at our hands. We may have to address the public, as Plato does
poetry, and assure them that we mean no harm to existing institutions.
There are serious errors which have a side of truth and which therefore
may fairly demand a careful consideration: there are truths mixed with
error of which we may indeed say, 'The half is better than the whole.'
Yet 'the half' may be an important contribution to the study of human
nature.

(a) The first paradox is the community of goods, which is mentioned
slightly at the end of the third Book, and seemingly, as Aristotle
observes, is confined to the guardians; at least no mention is made of
the other classes. But the omission is not of any real significance, and
probably arises out of the plan of the work, which prevents the writer
from entering into details.

Aristotle censures the community of property much in the spirit of
modern political economy, as tending to repress industry, and as doing
away with the spirit of benevolence. Modern writers almost refuse to
consider the subject, which is supposed to have been long ago settled
by the common opinion of mankind. But it must be remembered that the
sacredness of property is a notion far more fixed in modern than
in ancient times. The world has grown older, and is therefore more
conservative. Primitive society offered many examples of land held in
common, either by a tribe or by a township, and such may probably
have been the original form of landed tenure. Ancient legislators had
invented various modes of dividing and preserving the divisions of land
among the citizens; according to Aristotle there were nations who held
the land in common and divided the produce, and there were others who
divided the land and stored the produce in common. The evils of debt and
the inequality of property were far greater in ancient than in modern
times, and the accidents to which property was subject from war, or
revolution, or taxation, or other legislative interference, were also
greater. All these circumstances gave property a less fixed and sacred
character. The early Christians are believed to have held their property
in common, and the principle is sanctioned by the words of Christ
himself, and has been maintained as a counsel of perfection in almost
all ages of the Church. Nor have there been wanting instances of modern
enthusiasts who have made a religion of communism; in every age of
religious excitement notions like Wycliffe's 'inheritance of grace'
have tended to prevail. A like spirit, but fiercer and more violent,
has appeared in politics. 'The preparation of the Gospel of peace' soon
becomes the red flag of Republicanism.

We can hardly judge what effect Plato's views would have upon his
own contemporaries; they would perhaps have seemed to them only an
exaggeration of the Spartan commonwealth. Even modern writers would
acknowledge that the right of private property is based on expediency,
and may be interfered with in a variety of ways for the public good. Any
other mode of vesting property which was found to be more advantageous,
would in time acquire the same basis of right; 'the most useful,' in
Plato's words, 'would be the most sacred.' The lawyers and ecclesiastics
of former ages would have spoken of property as a sacred institution.
But they only meant by such language to oppose the greatest amount
of resistance to any invasion of the rights of individuals and of the
Church.

When we consider the question, without any fear of immediate application
to practice, in the spirit of Plato's Republic, are we quite sure that
the received notions of property are the best? Is the distribution of
wealth which is customary in civilized countries the most favourable
that can be conceived for the education and development of the mass
of mankind? Can 'the spectator of all time and all existence' be quite
convinced that one or two thousand years hence, great changes will not
have taken place in the rights of property, or even that the very notion
of property, beyond what is necessary for personal maintenance, may not
have disappeared? This was a distinction familiar to Aristotle, though
likely to be laughed at among ourselves. Such a change would not be
greater than some other changes through which the world has passed
in the transition from ancient to modern society, for example, the
emancipation of the serfs in Russia, or the abolition of slavery in
America and the West Indies; and not so great as the difference which
separates the Eastern village community from the Western world. To
accomplish such a revolution in the course of a few centuries, would
imply a rate of progress not more rapid than has actually taken place
during the last fifty or sixty years. The kingdom of Japan underwent
more change in five or six years than Europe in five or six hundred.
Many opinions and beliefs which have been cherished among ourselves
quite as strongly as the sacredness of property have passed away; and
the most untenable propositions respecting the right of bequests or
entail have been maintained with as much fervour as the most moderate.
Some one will be heard to ask whether a state of society can be final in
which the interests of thousands are perilled on the life or character
of a single person. And many will indulge the hope that our present
condition may, after all, be only transitional, and may conduct to a
higher, in which property, besides ministering to the enjoyment of the
few, may also furnish the means of the highest culture to all, and will
be a greater benefit to the public generally, and also more under the
control of public authority. There may come a time when the saying,
'Have I not a right to do what I will with my own?' will appear to be a
barbarous relic of individualism;--when the possession of a part may be
a greater blessing to each and all than the possession of the whole is
now to any one.

Such reflections appear visionary to the eye of the practical statesman,
but they are within the range of possibility to the philosopher. He can
imagine that in some distant age or clime, and through the influence of
some individual, the notion of common property may or might have sunk
as deep into the heart of a race, and have become as fixed to them, as
private property is to ourselves. He knows that this latter institution
is not more than four or five thousand years old: may not the end revert
to the beginning? In our own age even Utopias affect the spirit of
legislation, and an abstract idea may exercise a great influence on
practical politics.

The objections that would be generally urged against Plato's community
of property, are the old ones of Aristotle, that motives for exertion
would be taken away, and that disputes would arise when each was
dependent upon all. Every man would produce as little and consume as
much as he liked. The experience of civilized nations has hitherto been
adverse to Socialism. The effort is too great for human nature; men try
to live in common, but the personal feeling is always breaking in. On
the other hand it may be doubted whether our present notions of property
are not conventional, for they differ in different countries and in
different states of society. We boast of an individualism which is not
freedom, but rather an artificial result of the industrial state
of modern Europe. The individual is nominally free, but he is also
powerless in a world bound hand and foot in the chains of economic
necessity. Even if we cannot expect the mass of mankind to become
disinterested, at any rate we observe in them a power of organization
which fifty years ago would never have been suspected. The same forces
which have revolutionized the political system of Europe, may effect a
similar change in the social and industrial relations of mankind. And if
we suppose the influence of some good as well as neutral motives working
in the community, there will be no absurdity in expecting that the
mass of mankind having power, and becoming enlightened about the higher
possibilities of human life, when they learn how much more is attainable
for all than is at present the possession of a favoured few, may pursue
the common interest with an intelligence and persistency which mankind
have hitherto never seen.

Now that the world has once been set in motion, and is no longer held
fast under the tyranny of custom and ignorance; now that criticism has
pierced the veil of tradition and the past no longer overpowers the
present,--the progress of civilization may be expected to be far greater
and swifter than heretofore. Even at our present rate of speed the point
at which we may arrive in two or three generations is beyond the power
of imagination to foresee. There are forces in the world which work, not
in an arithmetical, but in a geometrical ratio of increase.
Education, to use the expression of Plato, moves like a wheel with
an ever-multiplying rapidity. Nor can we say how great may be its
influence, when it becomes universal,--when it has been inherited by
many generations,--when it is freed from the trammels of superstition
and rightly adapted to the wants and capacities of different classes
of men and women. Neither do we know how much more the co-operation of
minds or of hands may be capable of accomplishing, whether in labour or
in study. The resources of the natural sciences are not half-developed
as yet; the soil of the earth, instead of growing more barren, may
become many times more fertile than hitherto; the uses of machinery far
greater, and also more minute than at present. New secrets of physiology
may be revealed, deeply affecting human nature in its innermost
recesses. The standard of health may be raised and the lives of men
prolonged by sanitary and medical knowledge. There may be peace, there
may be leisure, there may be innocent refreshments of many kinds. The
ever-increasing power of locomotion may join the extremes of earth.
There may be mysterious workings of the human mind, such as occur only
at great crises of history. The East and the West may meet together, and
all nations may contribute their thoughts and their experience to the
common stock of humanity. Many other elements enter into a speculation
of this kind. But it is better to make an end of them. For such
reflections appear to the majority far-fetched, and to men of science,
commonplace.

(b) Neither to the mind of Plato nor of Aristotle did the doctrine of
community of property present at all the same difficulty, or appear to
be the same violation of the common Hellenic sentiment, as the community
of wives and children. This paradox he prefaces by another proposal,
that the occupations of men and women shall be the same, and that to
this end they shall have a common training and education. Male and
female animals have the same pursuits--why not also the two sexes of
man?

But have we not here fallen into a contradiction? for we were saying
that different natures should have different pursuits. How then can men
and women have the same? And is not the proposal inconsistent with our
notion of the division of labour?--These objections are no sooner raised
than answered; for, according to Plato, there is no organic difference
between men and women, but only the accidental one that men beget and
women bear children. Following the analogy of the other animals, he
contends that all natural gifts are scattered about indifferently among
both sexes, though there may be a superiority of degree on the part of
the men. The objection on the score of decency to their taking part
in the same gymnastic exercises, is met by Plato's assertion that the
existing feeling is a matter of habit.

That Plato should have emancipated himself from the ideas of his own
country and from the example of the East, shows a wonderful independence
of mind. He is conscious that women are half the human race, in some
respects the more important half (Laws); and for the sake both of men
and women he desires to raise the woman to a higher level of existence.
He brings, not sentiment, but philosophy to bear upon a question which
both in ancient and modern times has been chiefly regarded in the light
of custom or feeling. The Greeks had noble conceptions of womanhood
in the goddesses Athene and Artemis, and in the heroines Antigone and
Andromache. But these ideals had no counterpart in actual life. The
Athenian woman was in no way the equal of her husband; she was not the
entertainer of his guests or the mistress of his house, but only his
housekeeper and the mother of his children. She took no part in military
or political matters; nor is there any instance in the later ages of
Greece of a woman becoming famous in literature. 'Hers is the greatest
glory who has the least renown among men,' is the historian's conception
of feminine excellence. A very different ideal of womanhood is held up
by Plato to the world; she is to be the companion of the man, and to
share with him in the toils of war and in the cares of government. She
is to be similarly trained both in bodily and mental exercises. She
is to lose as far as possible the incidents of maternity and the
characteristics of the female sex.

The modern antagonist of the equality of the sexes would argue that the
differences between men and women are not confined to the single point
urged by Plato; that sensibility, gentleness, grace, are the qualities
of women, while energy, strength, higher intelligence, are to be looked
for in men. And the criticism is just: the differences affect the whole
nature, and are not, as Plato supposes, confined to a single point. But
neither can we say how far these differences are due to education and
the opinions of mankind, or physically inherited from the habits and
opinions of former generations. Women have been always taught, not
exactly that they are slaves, but that they are in an inferior position,
which is also supposed to have compensating advantages; and to this
position they have conformed. It is also true that the physical form may
easily change in the course of generations through the mode of life; and
the weakness or delicacy, which was once a matter of opinion, may become
a physical fact. The characteristics of sex vary greatly in different
countries and ranks of society, and at different ages in the same
individuals. Plato may have been right in denying that there was any
ultimate difference in the sexes of man other than that which exists in
animals, because all other differences may be conceived to disappear in
other states of society, or under different circumstances of life and
training.

The first wave having been passed, we proceed to the second--community
of wives and children. 'Is it possible? Is it desirable?' For as Glaucon
intimates, and as we far more strongly insist, 'Great doubts may
be entertained about both these points.' Any free discussion of the
question is impossible, and mankind are perhaps right in not allowing
the ultimate bases of social life to be examined. Few of us can safely
enquire into the things which nature hides, any more than we can
dissect our own bodies. Still, the manner in which Plato arrived at his
conclusions should be considered. For here, as Mr. Grote has remarked,
is a wonderful thing, that one of the wisest and best of men should have
entertained ideas of morality which are wholly at variance with our
own. And if we would do Plato justice, we must examine carefully the
character of his proposals. First, we may observe that the relations of
the sexes supposed by him are the reverse of licentious: he seems rather
to aim at an impossible strictness. Secondly, he conceives the family
to be the natural enemy of the state; and he entertains the serious
hope that an universal brotherhood may take the place of private
interests--an aspiration which, although not justified by experience,
has possessed many noble minds. On the other hand, there is no sentiment
or imagination in the connections which men and women are supposed by
him to form; human beings return to the level of the animals, neither
exalting to heaven, nor yet abusing the natural instincts. All that
world of poetry and fancy which the passion of love has called forth
in modern literature and romance would have been banished by Plato. The
arrangements of marriage in the Republic are directed to one object--the
improvement of the race. In successive generations a great development
both of bodily and mental qualities might be possible. The analogy of
animals tends to show that mankind can within certain limits receive a
change of nature. And as in animals we should commonly choose the best
for breeding, and destroy the others, so there must be a selection made
of the human beings whose lives are worthy to be preserved.

We start back horrified from this Platonic ideal, in the belief, first,
that the higher feelings of humanity are far too strong to be crushed
out; secondly, that if the plan could be carried into execution we
should be poorly recompensed by improvements in the breed for the loss
of the best things in life. The greatest regard for the weakest and
meanest of human beings--the infant, the criminal, the insane, the
idiot, truly seems to us one of the noblest results of Christianity. We
have learned, though as yet imperfectly, that the individual man has an
endless value in the sight of God, and that we honour Him when we honour
the darkened and disfigured image of Him (Laws). This is the lesson
which Christ taught in a parable when He said, 'Their angels do always
behold the face of My Father which is in heaven.' Such lessons are only
partially realized in any age; they were foreign to the age of Plato, as
they have very different degrees of strength in different countries or
ages of the Christian world. To the Greek the family was a religious and
customary institution binding the members together by a tie inferior
in strength to that of friendship, and having a less solemn and sacred
sound than that of country. The relationship which existed on the lower
level of custom, Plato imagined that he was raising to the higher level
of nature and reason; while from the modern and Christian point of view
we regard him as sanctioning murder and destroying the first principles
of morality.

The great error in these and similar speculations is that the difference
between man and the animals is forgotten in them. The human being
is regarded with the eye of a dog- or bird-fancier, or at best of a
slave-owner; the higher or human qualities are left out. The breeder
of animals aims chiefly at size or speed or strength; in a few cases at
courage or temper; most often the fitness of the animal for food is the
great desideratum. But mankind are not bred to be eaten, nor yet for
their superiority in fighting or in running or in drawing carts. Neither
does the improvement of the human race consist merely in the increase
of the bones and flesh, but in the growth and enlightenment of the mind.
Hence there must be 'a marriage of true minds' as well as of bodies, of
imagination and reason as well as of lusts and instincts. Men and women
without feeling or imagination are justly called brutes; yet Plato
takes away these qualities and puts nothing in their place, not even
the desire of a noble offspring, since parents are not to know their own
children. The most important transaction of social life, he who is the
idealist philosopher converts into the most brutal. For the pair are to
have no relation to one another, except at the hymeneal festival; their
children are not theirs, but the state's; nor is any tie of affection to
unite them. Yet here the analogy of the animals might have saved
Plato from a gigantic error, if he had 'not lost sight of his own
illustration.' For the 'nobler sort of birds and beasts' nourish and
protect their offspring and are faithful to one another.

An eminent physiologist thinks it worth while 'to try and place life
on a physical basis.' But should not life rest on the moral rather than
upon the physical? The higher comes first, then the lower, first the
human and rational, afterwards the animal. Yet they are not absolutely
divided; and in times of sickness or moments of self-indulgence they
seem to be only different aspects of a common human nature which
includes them both. Neither is the moral the limit of the physical,
but the expansion and enlargement of it,--the highest form which the
physical is capable of receiving. As Plato would say, the body does not
take care of the body, and still less of the mind, but the mind takes
care of both. In all human action not that which is common to man and
the animals is the characteristic element, but that which distinguishes
him from them. Even if we admit the physical basis, and resolve all
virtue into health of body 'la facon que notre sang circule,' still on
merely physical grounds we must come back to ideas. Mind and reason and
duty and conscience, under these or other names, are always reappearing.
There cannot be health of body without health of mind; nor health of
mind without the sense of duty and the love of truth (Charm).

That the greatest of ancient philosophers should in his regulations
about marriage have fallen into the error of separating body and mind,
does indeed appear surprising. Yet the wonder is not so much that Plato
should have entertained ideas of morality which to our own age are
revolting, but that he should have contradicted himself to an extent
which is hardly credible, falling in an instant from the heaven of
idealism into the crudest animalism. Rejoicing in the newly found gift
of reflection, he appears to have thought out a subject about which he
had better have followed the enlightened feeling of his own age. The
general sentiment of Hellas was opposed to his monstrous fancy. The old
poets, and in later time the tragedians, showed no want of respect for
the family, on which much of their religion was based. But the example
of Sparta, and perhaps in some degree the tendency to defy public
opinion, seems to have misled him. He will make one family out of all
the families of the state. He will select the finest specimens of men
and women and breed from these only.

Yet because the illusion is always returning (for the animal part of
human nature will from time to time assert itself in the disguise of
philosophy as well as of poetry), and also because any departure from
established morality, even where this is not intended, is apt to be
unsettling, it may be worth while to draw out a little more at length
the objections to the Platonic marriage. In the first place, history
shows that wherever polygamy has been largely allowed the race has
deteriorated. One man to one woman is the law of God and nature. Nearly
all the civilized peoples of the world at some period before the age of
written records, have become monogamists; and the step when once taken
has never been retraced. The exceptions occurring among Brahmins or
Mahometans or the ancient Persians, are of that sort which may be said
to prove the rule. The connexions formed between superior and
inferior races hardly ever produce a noble offspring, because they are
licentious; and because the children in such cases usually despise the
mother and are neglected by the father who is ashamed of them.
Barbarous nations when they are introduced by Europeans to vice die
out; polygamist peoples either import and adopt children from other
countries, or dwindle in numbers, or both. Dynasties and aristocracies
which have disregarded the laws of nature have decreased in numbers and
degenerated in stature; 'mariages de convenance' leave their enfeebling
stamp on the offspring of them (King Lear). The marriage of near
relations, or the marrying in and in of the same family tends constantly
to weakness or idiocy in the children, sometimes assuming the form as
they grow older of passionate licentiousness. The common prostitute
rarely has any offspring. By such unmistakable evidence is the authority
of morality asserted in the relations of the sexes: and so many more
elements enter into this 'mystery' than are dreamed of by Plato and some
other philosophers.

Recent enquirers have indeed arrived at the conclusion that among
primitive tribes there existed a community of wives as of property, and
that the captive taken by the spear was the only wife or slave whom any
man was permitted to call his own. The partial existence of such customs
among some of the lower races of man, and the survival of peculiar
ceremonies in the marriages of some civilized nations, are thought to
furnish a proof of similar institutions having been once universal.
There can be no question that the study of anthropology has considerably
changed our views respecting the first appearance of man upon the earth.
We know more about the aborigines of the world than formerly, but our
increasing knowledge shows above all things how little we know. With all
the helps which written monuments afford, we do but faintly realize the
condition of man two thousand or three thousand years ago. Of what his
condition was when removed to a distance 200,000 or 300,000 years, when
the majority of mankind were lower and nearer the animals than any tribe
now existing upon the earth, we cannot even entertain conjecture. Plato
(Laws) and Aristotle (Metaph.) may have been more right than we imagine
in supposing that some forms of civilisation were discovered and lost
several times over. If we cannot argue that all barbarism is a degraded
civilization, neither can we set any limits to the depth of degradation
to which the human race may sink through war, disease, or isolation.
And if we are to draw inferences about the origin of marriage from
the practice of barbarous nations, we should also consider the
remoter analogy of the animals. Many birds and animals, especially the
carnivorous, have only one mate, and the love and care of offspring
which seems to be natural is inconsistent with the primitive theory of
marriage. If we go back to an imaginary state in which men were almost
animals and the companions of them, we have as much right to argue from
what is animal to what is human as from the barbarous to the civilized
man. The record of animal life on the globe is fragmentary,--the
connecting links are wanting and cannot be supplied; the record of
social life is still more fragmentary and precarious. Even if we admit
that our first ancestors had no such institution as marriage, still
the stages by which men passed from outer barbarism to the comparative
civilization of China, Assyria, and Greece, or even of the ancient
Germans, are wholly unknown to us.

Such speculations are apt to be unsettling, because they seem to show
that an institution which was thought to be a revelation from heaven, is
only the growth of history and experience. We ask what is the origin of
marriage, and we are told that like the right of property, after many
wars and contests, it has gradually arisen out of the selfishness of
barbarians. We stand face to face with human nature in its primitive
nakedness. We are compelled to accept, not the highest, but the lowest
account of the origin of human society. But on the other hand we
may truly say that every step in human progress has been in the same
direction, and that in the course of ages the idea of marriage and of
the family has been more and more defined and consecrated. The civilized
East is immeasurably in advance of any savage tribes; the Greeks and
Romans have improved upon the East; the Christian nations have been
stricter in their views of the marriage relation than any of the
ancients. In this as in so many other things, instead of looking back
with regret to the past, we should look forward with hope to the future.
We must consecrate that which we believe to be the most holy, and that
'which is the most holy will be the most useful.' There is more reason
for maintaining the sacredness of the marriage tie, when we see the
benefit of it, than when we only felt a vague religious horror about
the violation of it. But in all times of transition, when established
beliefs are being undermined, there is a danger that in the passage from
the old to the new we may insensibly let go the moral principle, finding
an excuse for listening to the voice of passion in the uncertainty of
knowledge, or the fluctuations of opinion. And there are many persons
in our own day who, enlightened by the study of anthropology, and
fascinated by what is new and strange, some using the language of fear,
others of hope, are inclined to believe that a time will come when
through the self-assertion of women, or the rebellious spirit of
children, by the analysis of human relations, or by the force of outward
circumstances, the ties of family life may be broken or greatly relaxed.
They point to societies in America and elsewhere which tend to show that
the destruction of the family need not necessarily involve the overthrow
of all morality. Wherever we may think of such speculations, we can
hardly deny that they have been more rife in this generation than in any
other; and whither they are tending, who can predict?

To the doubts and queries raised by these 'social reformers' respecting
the relation of the sexes and the moral nature of man, there is a
sufficient answer, if any is needed. The difference about them and us is
really one of fact. They are speaking of man as they wish or fancy him
to be, but we are speaking of him as he is. They isolate the animal
part of his nature; we regard him as a creature having many sides, or
aspects, moving between good and evil, striving to rise above himself
and to become 'a little lower than the angels.' We also, to use
a Platonic formula, are not ignorant of the dissatisfactions and
incompatibilities of family life, of the meannesses of trade, of the
flatteries of one class of society by another, of the impediments which
the family throws in the way of lofty aims and aspirations. But we are
conscious that there are evils and dangers in the background greater
still, which are not appreciated, because they are either concealed
or suppressed. What a condition of man would that be, in which human
passions were controlled by no authority, divine or human, in which
there was no shame or decency, no higher affection overcoming or
sanctifying the natural instincts, but simply a rule of health! Is it
for this that we are asked to throw away the civilization which is the
growth of ages?

For strength and health are not the only qualities to be desired; there
are the more important considerations of mind and character and soul. We
know how human nature may be degraded; we do not know how by artificial
means any improvement in the breed can be effected. The problem is a
complex one, for if we go back only four steps (and these at least enter
into the composition of a child), there are commonly thirty progenitors
to be taken into account. Many curious facts, rarely admitting of proof,
are told us respecting the inheritance of disease or character from a
remote ancestor. We can trace the physical resemblances of parents and
children in the same family--

'Sic oculos, sic ille manus, sic ora ferebat';

but scarcely less often the differences which distinguish children both
from their parents and from one another. We are told of similar mental
peculiarities running in families, and again of a tendency, as in
the animals, to revert to a common or original stock. But we have a
difficulty in distinguishing what is a true inheritance of genius or
other qualities, and what is mere imitation or the result of similar
circumstances. Great men and great women have rarely had great fathers
and mothers. Nothing that we know of in the circumstances of their birth
or lineage will explain their appearance. Of the English poets of the
last and two preceding centuries scarcely a descendant remains,--none
have ever been distinguished. So deeply has nature hidden her secret,
and so ridiculous is the fancy which has been entertained by some that
we might in time by suitable marriage arrangements or, as Plato would
have said, 'by an ingenious system of lots,' produce a Shakespeare or
a Milton. Even supposing that we could breed men having the tenacity
of bulldogs, or, like the Spartans, 'lacking the wit to run away
in battle,' would the world be any the better? Many of the noblest
specimens of the human race have been among the weakest physically.
Tyrtaeus or Aesop, or our own Newton, would have been exposed at Sparta;
and some of the fairest and strongest men and women have been among the
wickedest and worst. Not by the Platonic device of uniting the strong
and fair with the strong and fair, regardless of sentiment and morality,
nor yet by his other device of combining dissimilar natures (Statesman),
have mankind gradually passed from the brutality and licentiousness of
primitive marriage to marriage Christian and civilized.

Few persons would deny that we bring into the world an inheritance of
mental and physical qualities derived first from our parents, or through
them from some remoter ancestor, secondly from our race, thirdly from
the general condition of mankind into which we are born. Nothing is
commoner than the remark, that 'So and so is like his father or his
uncle'; and an aged person may not unfrequently note a resemblance in
a youth to a long-forgotten ancestor, observing that 'Nature sometimes
skips a generation.' It may be true also, that if we knew more about
our ancestors, these similarities would be even more striking to us.
Admitting the facts which are thus described in a popular way, we may
however remark that there is no method of difference by which they can
be defined or estimated, and that they constitute only a small part of
each individual. The doctrine of heredity may seem to take out of our
hands the conduct of our own lives, but it is the idea, not the fact,
which is really terrible to us. For what we have received from our
ancestors is only a fraction of what we are, or may become. The
knowledge that drunkenness or insanity has been prevalent in a
family may be the best safeguard against their recurrence in a future
generation. The parent will be most awake to the vices or diseases in
his child of which he is most sensible within himself. The whole of life
may be directed to their prevention or cure. The traces of consumption
may become fainter, or be wholly effaced: the inherent tendency to vice
or crime may be eradicated. And so heredity, from being a curse, may
become a blessing. We acknowledge that in the matter of our birth, as in
our nature generally, there are previous circumstances which affect
us. But upon this platform of circumstances or within this wall of
necessity, we have still the power of creating a life for ourselves by
the informing energy of the human will.

There is another aspect of the marriage question to which Plato is a
stranger. All the children born in his state are foundlings. It never
occurred to him that the greater part of them, according to universal
experience, would have perished. For children can only be brought up in
families. There is a subtle sympathy between the mother and the child
which cannot be supplied by other mothers, or by 'strong nurses one or
more' (Laws). If Plato's 'pen' was as fatal as the Creches of Paris, or
the foundling hospital of Dublin, more than nine-tenths of his children
would have perished. There would have been no need to expose or put
out of the way the weaklier children, for they would have died of
themselves. So emphatically does nature protest against the destruction
of the family.

What Plato had heard or seen of Sparta was applied by him in a mistaken
way to his ideal commonwealth. He probably observed that both the
Spartan men and women were superior in form and strength to the other
Greeks; and this superiority he was disposed to attribute to the laws
and customs relating to marriage. He did not consider that the desire
of a noble offspring was a passion among the Spartans, or that their
physical superiority was to be attributed chiefly, not to their marriage
customs, but to their temperance and training. He did not reflect that
Sparta was great, not in consequence of the relaxation of morality, but
in spite of it, by virtue of a political principle stronger far than
existed in any other Grecian state. Least of all did he observe that
Sparta did not really produce the finest specimens of the Greek
race. The genius, the political inspiration of Athens, the love of
liberty--all that has made Greece famous with posterity, were wanting
among the Spartans. They had no Themistocles, or Pericles, or Aeschylus,
or Sophocles, or Socrates, or Plato. The individual was not allowed to
appear above the state; the laws were fixed, and he had no business to
alter or reform them. Yet whence has the progress of cities and nations
arisen, if not from remarkable individuals, coming into the world we
know not how, and from causes over which we have no control?
Something too much may have been said in modern times of the value of
individuality. But we can hardly condemn too strongly a system which,
instead of fostering the scattered seeds or sparks of genius and
character, tends to smother and extinguish them.

Still, while condemning Plato, we must acknowledge that neither
Christianity, nor any other form of religion and society, has hitherto
been able to cope with this most difficult of social problems, and that
the side from which Plato regarded it is that from which we turn away.
Population is the most untameable force in the political and social
world. Do we not find, especially in large cities, that the greatest
hindrance to the amelioration of the poor is their improvidence in
marriage?--a small fault truly, if not involving endless consequences.
There are whole countries too, such as India, or, nearer home, Ireland,
in which a right solution of the marriage question seems to lie at the
foundation of the happiness of the community. There are too many people
on a given space, or they marry too early and bring into the world a
sickly and half-developed offspring; or owing to the very conditions
of their existence, they become emaciated and hand on a similar life
to their descendants. But who can oppose the voice of prudence to the
'mightiest passions of mankind' (Laws), especially when they have
been licensed by custom and religion? In addition to the influences of
education, we seem to require some new principles of right and wrong in
these matters, some force of opinion, which may indeed be already heard
whispering in private, but has never affected the moral sentiments
of mankind in general. We unavoidably lose sight of the principle of
utility, just in that action of our lives in which we have the most need
of it. The influences which we can bring to bear upon this question
are chiefly indirect. In a generation or two, education, emigration,
improvements in agriculture and manufactures, may have provided the
solution. The state physician hardly likes to probe the wound: it is
beyond his art; a matter which he cannot safely let alone, but which he
dare not touch:

'We do but skin and film the ulcerous place.'

When again in private life we see a whole family one by one dropping
into the grave under the Ate of some inherited malady, and the parents
perhaps surviving them, do our minds ever go back silently to that day
twenty-five or thirty years before on which under the fairest auspices,
amid the rejoicings of friends and acquaintances, a bride and bridegroom
joined hands with one another? In making such a reflection we are not
opposing physical considerations to moral, but moral to physical; we are
seeking to make the voice of reason heard, which drives us back from the
extravagance of sentimentalism on common sense. The late Dr. Combe is
said by his biographer to have resisted the temptation to marriage,
because he knew that he was subject to hereditary consumption. One who
deserved to be called a man of genius, a friend of my youth, was in the
habit of wearing a black ribbon on his wrist, in order to remind him
that, being liable to outbreaks of insanity, he must not give way to the
natural impulses of affection: he died unmarried in a lunatic asylum.
These two little facts suggest the reflection that a very few persons
have done from a sense of duty what the rest of mankind ought to have
done under like circumstances, if they had allowed themselves to think
of all the misery which they were about to bring into the world. If
we could prevent such marriages without any violation of feeling or
propriety, we clearly ought; and the prohibition in the course of time
would be protected by a 'horror naturalis' similar to that which, in
all civilized ages and countries, has prevented the marriage of near
relations by blood. Mankind would have been the happier, if some things
which are now allowed had from the beginning been denied to them; if the
sanction of religion could have prohibited practices inimical to health;
if sanitary principles could in early ages have been invested with a
superstitious awe. But, living as we do far on in the world's history,
we are no longer able to stamp at once with the impress of religion a
new prohibition. A free agent cannot have his fancies regulated by law;
and the execution of the law would be rendered impossible, owing to the
uncertainty of the cases in which marriage was to be forbidden. Who
can weigh virtue, or even fortune against health, or moral and mental
qualities against bodily? Who can measure probabilities against
certainties? There has been some good as well as evil in the discipline
of suffering; and there are diseases, such as consumption, which have
exercised a refining and softening influence on the character. Youth is
too inexperienced to balance such nice considerations; parents do not
often think of them, or think of them too late. They are at a distance
and may probably be averted; change of place, a new state of life, the
interests of a home may be the cure of them. So persons vainly reason
when their minds are already made up and their fortunes irrevocably
linked together. Nor is there any ground for supposing that marriages
are to any great extent influenced by reflections of this sort, which
seem unable to make any head against the irresistible impulse of
individual attachment.

Lastly, no one can have observed the first rising flood of the passions
in youth, the difficulty of regulating them, and the effects on the
whole mind and nature which follow from them, the stimulus which
is given to them by the imagination, without feeling that there is
something unsatisfactory in our method of treating them. That the most
important influence on human life should be wholly left to chance or
shrouded in mystery, and instead of being disciplined or understood,
should be required to conform only to an external standard of
propriety--cannot be regarded by the philosopher as a safe or
satisfactory condition of human things. And still those who have the
charge of youth may find a way by watchfulness, by affection, by the
manliness and innocence of their own lives, by occasional hints, by
general admonitions which every one can apply for himself, to mitigate
this terrible evil which eats out the heart of individuals and corrupts
the moral sentiments of nations. In no duty towards others is there more
need of reticence and self-restraint. So great is the danger lest he who
would be the counsellor of another should reveal the secret prematurely,
lest he should get another too much into his power; or fix the passing
impression of evil by demanding the confession of it.

Nor is Plato wrong in asserting that family attachments may interfere
with higher aims. If there have been some who 'to party gave up what was
meant for mankind,' there have certainly been others who to family
gave up what was meant for mankind or for their country. The cares
of children, the necessity of procuring money for their support, the
flatteries of the rich by the poor, the exclusiveness of caste, the
pride of birth or wealth, the tendency of family life to divert men from
the pursuit of the ideal or the heroic, are as lowering in our own age
as in that of Plato. And if we prefer to look at the gentle influences
of home, the development of the affections, the amenities of society,
the devotion of one member of a family for the good of the others, which
form one side of the picture, we must not quarrel with him, or perhaps
ought rather to be grateful to him, for having presented to us the
reverse. Without attempting to defend Plato on grounds of morality, we
may allow that there is an aspect of the world which has not unnaturally
led him into error.

We hardly appreciate the power which the idea of the State, like all
other abstract ideas, exercised over the mind of Plato. To us the State
seems to be built up out of the family, or sometimes to be the framework
in which family and social life is contained. But to Plato in his
present mood of mind the family is only a disturbing influence which,
instead of filling up, tends to disarrange the higher unity of the
State. No organization is needed except a political, which,
regarded from another point of view, is a military one. The State is
all-sufficing for the wants of man, and, like the idea of the Church in
later ages, absorbs all other desires and affections. In time of war the
thousand citizens are to stand like a rampart impregnable against the
world or the Persian host; in time of peace the preparation for war and
their duties to the State, which are also their duties to one another,
take up their whole life and time. The only other interest which is
allowed to them besides that of war, is the interest of philosophy. When
they are too old to be soldiers they are to retire from active life
and to have a second novitiate of study and contemplation. There is an
element of monasticism even in Plato's communism. If he could have done
without children, he might have converted his Republic into a religious
order. Neither in the Laws, when the daylight of common sense breaks in
upon him, does he retract his error. In the state of which he would be
the founder, there is no marrying or giving in marriage: but because of
the infirmity of mankind, he condescends to allow the law of nature to
prevail.

(c) But Plato has an equal, or, in his own estimation, even greater
paradox in reserve, which is summed up in the famous text, 'Until kings
are philosophers or philosophers are kings, cities will never cease
from ill.' And by philosophers he explains himself to mean those who
are capable of apprehending ideas, especially the idea of good. To the
attainment of this higher knowledge the second education is directed.
Through a process of training which has already made them good citizens
they are now to be made good legislators. We find with some surprise
(not unlike the feeling which Aristotle in a well-known passage
describes the hearers of Plato's lectures as experiencing, when they
went to a discourse on the idea of good, expecting to be instructed in
moral truths, and received instead of them arithmetical and mathematical
formulae) that Plato does not propose for his future legislators any
study of finance or law or military tactics, but only of abstract
mathematics, as a preparation for the still more abstract conception of
good. We ask, with Aristotle, What is the use of a man knowing the idea
of good, if he does not know what is good for this individual, this
state, this condition of society? We cannot understand how Plato's
legislators or guardians are to be fitted for their work of statesmen by
the study of the five mathematical sciences. We vainly search in Plato's
own writings for any explanation of this seeming absurdity.

The discovery of a great metaphysical conception seems to ravish the
mind with a prophetic consciousness which takes away the power
of estimating its value. No metaphysical enquirer has ever fairly
criticised his own speculations; in his own judgment they have been
above criticism; nor has he understood that what to him seemed to be
absolute truth may reappear in the next generation as a form of logic
or an instrument of thought. And posterity have also sometimes equally
misapprehended the real value of his speculations. They appear to them
to have contributed nothing to the stock of human knowledge. The IDEA
of good is apt to be regarded by the modern thinker as an unmeaning
abstraction; but he forgets that this abstraction is waiting ready for
use, and will hereafter be filled up by the divisions of knowledge.
When mankind do not as yet know that the world is subject to law, the
introduction of the mere conception of law or design or final cause, and
the far-off anticipation of the harmony of knowledge, are great steps
onward. Even the crude generalization of the unity of all things leads
men to view the world with different eyes, and may easily affect their
conception of human life and of politics, and also their own conduct and
character (Tim). We can imagine how a great mind like that of Pericles
might derive elevation from his intercourse with Anaxagoras (Phaedr.).
To be struggling towards a higher but unattainable conception is a more
favourable intellectual condition than to rest satisfied in a narrow
portion of ascertained fact. And the earlier, which have sometimes been
the greater ideas of science, are often lost sight of at a later period.
How rarely can we say of any modern enquirer in the magnificent language
of Plato, that 'He is the spectator of all time and of all existence!'

Nor is there anything unnatural in the hasty application of these vast
metaphysical conceptions to practical and political life. In the first
enthusiasm of ideas men are apt to see them everywhere, and to apply
them in the most remote sphere. They do not understand that the
experience of ages is required to enable them to fill up 'the
intermediate axioms.' Plato himself seems to have imagined that the
truths of psychology, like those of astronomy and harmonics, would be
arrived at by a process of deduction, and that the method which he has
pursued in the Fourth Book, of inferring them from experience and the
use of language, was imperfect and only provisional. But when, after
having arrived at the idea of good, which is the end of the science of
dialectic, he is asked, What is the nature, and what are the divisions
of the science? He refuses to answer, as if intending by the refusal to
intimate that the state of knowledge which then existed was not such as
would allow the philosopher to enter into his final rest. The previous
sciences must first be studied, and will, we may add, continue to be
studied tell the end of time, although in a sense different from any
which Plato could have conceived. But we may observe, that while he is
aware of the vacancy of his own ideal, he is full of enthusiasm in the
contemplation of it. Looking into the orb of light, he sees nothing, but
he is warmed and elevated. The Hebrew prophet believed that faith in
God would enable him to govern the world; the Greek philosopher imagined
that contemplation of the good would make a legislator. There is as much
to be filled up in the one case as in the other, and the one mode of
conception is to the Israelite what the other is to the Greek. Both find
a repose in a divine perfection, which, whether in a more personal or
impersonal form, exists without them and independently of them, as well
as within them.

There is no mention of the idea of good in the Timaeus, nor of the
divine Creator of the world in the Republic; and we are naturally led
to ask in what relation they stand to one another. Is God above or below
the idea of good? Or is the Idea of Good another mode of conceiving God?
The latter appears to be the truer answer. To the Greek philosopher
the perfection and unity of God was a far higher conception than his
personality, which he hardly found a word to express, and which to him
would have seemed to be borrowed from mythology. To the Christian, on
the other hand, or to the modern thinker in general, it is difficult,
if not impossible, to attach reality to what he terms mere abstraction;
while to Plato this very abstraction is the truest and most real of all
things. Hence, from a difference in forms of thought, Plato appears to
be resting on a creation of his own mind only. But if we may be allowed
to paraphrase the idea of good by the words 'intelligent principle of
law and order in the universe, embracing equally man and nature,' we
begin to find a meeting-point between him and ourselves.

The question whether the ruler or statesman should be a philosopher is
one that has not lost interest in modern times. In most countries of
Europe and Asia there has been some one in the course of ages who
has truly united the power of command with the power of thought and
reflection, as there have been also many false combinations of these
qualities. Some kind of speculative power is necessary both in practical
and political life; like the rhetorician in the Phaedrus, men require to
have a conception of the varieties of human character, and to be raised
on great occasions above the commonplaces of ordinary life. Yet the idea
of the philosopher-statesman has never been popular with the mass of
mankind; partly because he cannot take the world into his confidence or
make them understand the motives from which he acts; and also because
they are jealous of a power which they do not understand. The revolution
which human nature desires to effect step by step in many ages is likely
to be precipitated by him in a single year or life. They are afraid that
in the pursuit of his greater aims he may disregard the common feelings
of humanity, he is too apt to be looking into the distant future or back
into the remote past, and unable to see actions or events which, to use
an expression of Plato's 'are tumbling out at his feet.' Besides, as
Plato would say, there are other corruptions of these philosophical
statesmen. Either 'the native hue of resolution is sicklied o'er with
the pale cast of thought,' and at the moment when action above all
things is required he is undecided, or general principles are enunciated
by him in order to cover some change of policy; or his ignorance of the
world has made him more easily fall a prey to the arts of others; or in
some cases he has been converted into a courtier, who enjoys the luxury
of holding liberal opinions, but was never known to perform a liberal
action. No wonder that mankind have been in the habit of calling
statesmen of this class pedants, sophisters, doctrinaires, visionaries.
For, as we may be allowed to say, a little parodying the words of Plato,
'they have seen bad imitations of the philosopher-statesman.' But a man
in whom the power of thought and action are perfectly balanced, equal to
the present, reaching forward to the future, 'such a one,' ruling in a
constitutional state, 'they have never seen.'

But as the philosopher is apt to fail in the routine of political life,
so the ordinary statesman is also apt to fail in extraordinary crises.
When the face of the world is beginning to alter, and thunder is heard
in the distance, he is still guided by his old maxims, and is the slave
of his inveterate party prejudices; he cannot perceive the signs of the
times; instead of looking forward he looks back; he learns nothing and
forgets nothing; with 'wise saws and modern instances' he would stem the
rising tide of revolution. He lives more and more within the circle of
his own party, as the world without him becomes stronger. This seems to
be the reason why the old order of things makes so poor a figure
when confronted with the new, why churches can never reform, why most
political changes are made blindly and convulsively. The great crises
in the history of nations have often been met by an ecclesiastical
positiveness, and a more obstinate reassertion of principles which
have lost their hold upon a nation. The fixed ideas of a reactionary
statesman may be compared to madness; they grow upon him, and he becomes
possessed by them; no judgement of others is ever admitted by him to be
weighed in the balance against his own.

(d) Plato, labouring under what, to modern readers, appears to have been
a confusion of ideas, assimilates the state to the individual, and fails
to distinguish Ethics from Politics. He thinks that to be most of a
state which is most like one man, and in which the citizens have the
greatest uniformity of character. He does not see that the analogy is
partly fallacious, and that the will or character of a state or nation
is really the balance or rather the surplus of individual wills, which
are limited by the condition of having to act in common. The movement
of a body of men can never have the pliancy or facility of a single man;
the freedom of the individual, which is always limited, becomes still
more straitened when transferred to a nation. The powers of action and
feeling are necessarily weaker and more balanced when they are diffused
through a community; whence arises the often discussed question, 'Can a
nation, like an individual, have a conscience?' We hesitate to say
that the characters of nations are nothing more than the sum of the
characters of the individuals who compose them; because there may be
tendencies in individuals which react upon one another. A whole nation
may be wiser than any one man in it; or may be animated by some common
opinion or feeling which could not equally have affected the mind of
a single person, or may have been inspired by a leader of genius to
perform acts more than human. Plato does not appear to have analysed
the complications which arise out of the collective action of mankind.
Neither is he capable of seeing that analogies, though specious as
arguments, may often have no foundation in fact, or of distinguishing
between what is intelligible or vividly present to the mind, and what
is true. In this respect he is far below Aristotle, who is comparatively
seldom imposed upon by false analogies. He cannot disentangle the arts
from the virtues--at least he is always arguing from one to the other.
His notion of music is transferred from harmony of sounds to harmony of
life: in this he is assisted by the ambiguities of language as well as
by the prevalence of Pythagorean notions. And having once assimilated
the state to the individual, he imagines that he will find the
succession of states paralleled in the lives of individuals.

Still, through this fallacious medium, a real enlargement of ideas is
attained. When the virtues as yet presented no distinct conception to
the mind, a great advance was made by the comparison of them with the
arts; for virtue is partly art, and has an outward form as well as an
inward principle. The harmony of music affords a lively image of the
harmonies of the world and of human life, and may be regarded as a
splendid illustration which was naturally mistaken for a real analogy.
In the same way the identification of ethics with politics has a
tendency to give definiteness to ethics, and also to elevate and ennoble
men's notions of the aims of government and of the duties of citizens;
for ethics from one point of view may be conceived as an idealized law
and politics; and politics, as ethics reduced to the conditions of human
society. There have been evils which have arisen out of the attempt to
identify them, and this has led to the separation or antagonism of
them, which has been introduced by modern political writers. But we may
likewise feel that something has been lost in their separation, and
that the ancient philosophers who estimated the moral and intellectual
wellbeing of mankind first, and the wealth of nations and individuals
second, may have a salutary influence on the speculations of modern
times. Many political maxims originate in a reaction against an opposite
error; and when the errors against which they were directed have passed
away, they in turn become errors.

3. Plato's views of education are in several respects remarkable;
like the rest of the Republic they are partly Greek and partly ideal,
beginning with the ordinary curriculum of the Greek youth, and extending
to after-life. Plato is the first writer who distinctly says that
education is to comprehend the whole of life, and to be a preparation
for another in which education begins again. This is the continuous
thread which runs through the Republic, and which more than any other of
his ideas admits of an application to modern life.

He has long given up the notion that virtue cannot be taught; and he is
disposed to modify the thesis of the Protagoras, that the virtues are
one and not many. He is not unwilling to admit the sensible world
into his scheme of truth. Nor does he assert in the Republic the
involuntariness of vice, which is maintained by him in the Timaeus,
Sophist, and Laws (Protag., Apol., Gorg.). Nor do the so-called Platonic
ideas recovered from a former state of existence affect his theory
of mental improvement. Still we observe in him the remains of the old
Socratic doctrine, that true knowledge must be elicited from within, and
is to be sought for in ideas, not in particulars of sense. Education, as
he says, will implant a principle of intelligence which is better than
ten thousand eyes. The paradox that the virtues are one, and the kindred
notion that all virtue is knowledge, are not entirely renounced; the
first is seen in the supremacy given to justice over the rest; the
second in the tendency to absorb the moral virtues in the intellectual,
and to centre all goodness in the contemplation of the idea of good. The
world of sense is still depreciated and identified with opinion, though
admitted to be a shadow of the true. In the Republic he is evidently
impressed with the conviction that vice arises chiefly from ignorance
and may be cured by education; the multitude are hardly to be deemed
responsible for what they do. A faint allusion to the doctrine of
reminiscence occurs in the Tenth Book; but Plato's views of education
have no more real connection with a previous state of existence than
our own; he only proposes to elicit from the mind that which is there
already. Education is represented by him, not as the filling of a
vessel, but as the turning the eye of the soul towards the light.

He treats first of music or literature, which he divides into true and
false, and then goes on to gymnastics; of infancy in the Republic he
takes no notice, though in the Laws he gives sage counsels about the
nursing of children and the management of the mothers, and would have
an education which is even prior to birth. But in the Republic he begins
with the age at which the child is capable of receiving ideas, and
boldly asserts, in language which sounds paradoxical to modern ears,
that he must be taught the false before he can learn the true. The
modern and ancient philosophical world are not agreed about truth and
falsehood; the one identifies truth almost exclusively with fact, the
other with ideas. This is the difference between ourselves and Plato,
which is, however, partly a difference of words. For we too should admit
that a child must receive many lessons which he imperfectly understands;
he must be taught some things in a figure only, some too which he can
hardly be expected to believe when he grows older; but we should limit
the use of fiction by the necessity of the case. Plato would draw the
line differently; according to him the aim of early education is not
truth as a matter of fact, but truth as a matter of principle; the child
is to be taught first simple religious truths, and then simple moral
truths, and insensibly to learn the lesson of good manners and good
taste. He would make an entire reformation of the old mythology; like
Xenophanes and Heracleitus he is sensible of the deep chasm which
separates his own age from Homer and Hesiod, whom he quotes and invests
with an imaginary authority, but only for his own purposes. The lusts
and treacheries of the gods are to be banished; the terrors of the world
below are to be dispelled; the misbehaviour of the Homeric heroes is
not to be a model for youth. But there is another strain heard in Homer
which may teach our youth endurance; and something may be learnt in
medicine from the simple practice of the Homeric age. The principles
on which religion is to be based are two only: first, that God is true;
secondly, that he is good. Modern and Christian writers have often
fallen short of these; they can hardly be said to have gone beyond them.

The young are to be brought up in happy surroundings, out of the way of
sights or sounds which may hurt the character or vitiate the taste.
They are to live in an atmosphere of health; the breeze is always to
be wafting to them the impressions of truth and goodness. Could such
an education be realized, or if our modern religious education could
be bound up with truth and virtue and good manners and good taste, that
would be the best hope of human improvement. Plato, like ourselves,
is looking forward to changes in the moral and religious world, and is
preparing for them. He recognizes the danger of unsettling young men's
minds by sudden changes of laws and principles, by destroying the
sacredness of one set of ideas when there is nothing else to take their
place. He is afraid too of the influence of the drama, on the ground
that it encourages false sentiment, and therefore he would not have
his children taken to the theatre; he thinks that the effect on the
spectators is bad, and on the actors still worse. His idea of education
is that of harmonious growth, in which are insensibly learnt the lessons
of temperance and endurance, and the body and mind develope in equal
proportions. The first principle which runs through all art and nature
is simplicity; this also is to be the rule of human life.

The second stage of education is gymnastic, which answers to the period
of muscular growth and development. The simplicity which is enforced in
music is extended to gymnastic; Plato is aware that the training of the
body may be inconsistent with the training of the mind, and that bodily
exercise may be easily overdone. Excessive training of the body is
apt to give men a headache or to render them sleepy at a lecture on
philosophy, and this they attribute not to the true cause, but to the
nature of the subject. Two points are noticeable in Plato's treatment of
gymnastic:--First, that the time of training is entirely separated from
the time of literary education. He seems to have thought that two things
of an opposite and different nature could not be learnt at the same
time. Here we can hardly agree with him; and, if we may judge by
experience, the effect of spending three years between the ages of
fourteen and seventeen in mere bodily exercise would be far from
improving to the intellect. Secondly, he affirms that music and
gymnastic are not, as common opinion is apt to imagine, intended, the
one for the cultivation of the mind and the other of the body, but that
they are both equally designed for the improvement of the mind. The
body, in his view, is the servant of the mind; the subjection of the
lower to the higher is for the advantage of both. And doubtless the
mind may exercise a very great and paramount influence over the body,
if exerted not at particular moments and by fits and starts, but
continuously, in making preparation for the whole of life. Other Greek
writers saw the mischievous tendency of Spartan discipline (Arist. Pol;
Thuc.). But only Plato recognized the fundamental error on which the
practice was based.

The subject of gymnastic leads Plato to the sister subject of medicine,
which he further illustrates by the parallel of law. The modern
disbelief in medicine has led in this, as in some other departments of
knowledge, to a demand for greater simplicity; physicians are becoming
aware that they often make diseases 'greater and more complicated' by
their treatment of them (Rep.). In two thousand years their art has made
but slender progress; what they have gained in the analysis of the parts
is in a great degree lost by their feebler conception of the human frame
as a whole. They have attended more to the cure of diseases than to the
conditions of health; and the improvements in medicine have been more
than counterbalanced by the disuse of regular training. Until lately
they have hardly thought of air and water, the importance of which was
well understood by the ancients; as Aristotle remarks, 'Air and water,
being the elements which we most use, have the greatest effect upon
health' (Polit.). For ages physicians have been under the dominion of
prejudices which have only recently given way; and now there are as many
opinions in medicine as in theology, and an equal degree of scepticism
and some want of toleration about both. Plato has several good notions
about medicine; according to him, 'the eye cannot be cured without the
rest of the body, nor the body without the mind' (Charm.). No man
of sense, he says in the Timaeus, would take physic; and we heartily
sympathize with him in the Laws when he declares that 'the limbs of the
rustic worn with toil will derive more benefit from warm baths than from
the prescriptions of a not over wise doctor.' But we can hardly praise
him when, in obedience to the authority of Homer, he depreciates diet,
or approve of the inhuman spirit in which he would get rid of invalid
and useless lives by leaving them to die. He does not seem to have
considered that the 'bridle of Theages' might be accompanied by
qualities which were of far more value to the State than the health
or strength of the citizens; or that the duty of taking care of the
helpless might be an important element of education in a State. The
physician himself (this is a delicate and subtle observation) should
not be a man in robust health; he should have, in modern phraseology,
a nervous temperament; he should have experience of disease in his own
person, in order that his powers of observation may be quickened in the
case of others.

The perplexity of medicine is paralleled by the perplexity of law; in
which, again, Plato would have men follow the golden rule of simplicity.
Greater matters are to be determined by the legislator or by the oracle
of Delphi, lesser matters are to be left to the temporary regulation
of the citizens themselves. Plato is aware that laissez faire is an
important element of government. The diseases of a State are like the
heads of a hydra; they multiply when they are cut off. The true remedy
for them is not extirpation but prevention. And the way to prevent them
is to take care of education, and education will take care of all the
rest. So in modern times men have often felt that the only political
measure worth having--the only one which would produce any certain or
lasting effect, was a measure of national education. And in our own more
than in any previous age the necessity has been recognized of restoring
the ever-increasing confusion of law to simplicity and common sense.

When the training in music and gymnastic is completed, there follows the
first stage of active and public life. But soon education is to begin
again from a new point of view. In the interval between the Fourth and
Seventh Books we have discussed the nature of knowledge, and have thence
been led to form a higher conception of what was required of us. For
true knowledge, according to Plato, is of abstractions, and has to do,
not with particulars or individuals, but with universals only; not with
the beauties of poetry, but with the ideas of philosophy. And the great
aim of education is the cultivation of the habit of abstraction. This
is to be acquired through the study of the mathematical sciences. They
alone are capable of giving ideas of relation, and of arousing the
dormant energies of thought.

Mathematics in the age of Plato comprehended a very small part of that
which is now included in them; but they bore a much larger proportion to
the sum of human knowledge. They were the only organon of thought which
the human mind at that time possessed, and the only measure by which
the chaos of particulars could be reduced to rule and order. The
faculty which they trained was naturally at war with the poetical
or imaginative; and hence to Plato, who is everywhere seeking for
abstractions and trying to get rid of the illusions of sense, nearly
the whole of education is contained in them. They seemed to have an
inexhaustible application, partly because their true limits were not yet
understood. These Plato himself is beginning to investigate; though
not aware that number and figure are mere abstractions of sense,
he recognizes that the forms used by geometry are borrowed from the
sensible world. He seeks to find the ultimate ground of mathematical
ideas in the idea of good, though he does not satisfactorily explain the
connexion between them; and in his conception of the relation of ideas
to numbers, he falls very far short of the definiteness attributed to
him by Aristotle (Met.). But if he fails to recognize the true limits of
mathematics, he also reaches a point beyond them; in his view, ideas
of number become secondary to a higher conception of knowledge. The
dialectician is as much above the mathematician as the mathematician is
above the ordinary man. The one, the self-proving, the good which is
the higher sphere of dialectic, is the perfect truth to which all things
ascend, and in which they finally repose.

This self-proving unity or idea of good is a mere vision of which no
distinct explanation can be given, relative only to a particular stage
in Greek philosophy. It is an abstraction under which no individuals
are comprehended, a whole which has no parts (Arist., Nic. Eth.). The
vacancy of such a form was perceived by Aristotle, but not by Plato.
Nor did he recognize that in the dialectical process are included two or
more methods of investigation which are at variance with each other.
He did not see that whether he took the longer or the shorter road, no
advance could be made in this way. And yet such visions often have an
immense effect; for although the method of science cannot anticipate
science, the idea of science, not as it is, but as it will be in the
future, is a great and inspiring principle. In the pursuit of knowledge
we are always pressing forward to something beyond us; and as a false
conception of knowledge, for example the scholastic philosophy, may lead
men astray during many ages, so the true ideal, though vacant, may draw
all their thoughts in a right direction. It makes a great difference
whether the general expectation of knowledge, as this indefinite feeling
may be termed, is based upon a sound judgment. For mankind may often
entertain a true conception of what knowledge ought to be when they have
but a slender experience of facts. The correlation of the sciences, the
consciousness of the unity of nature, the idea of classification, the
sense of proportion, the unwillingness to stop short of certainty or to
confound probability with truth, are important principles of the higher
education. Although Plato could tell us nothing, and perhaps knew that
he could tell us nothing, of the absolute truth, he has exercised
an influence on the human mind which even at the present day is not
exhausted; and political and social questions may yet arise in which the
thoughts of Plato may be read anew and receive a fresh meaning.

The Idea of good is so called only in the Republic, but there are traces
of it in other dialogues of Plato. It is a cause as well as an idea, and
from this point of view may be compared with the creator of the Timaeus,
who out of his goodness created all things. It corresponds to a certain
extent with the modern conception of a law of nature, or of a final
cause, or of both in one, and in this regard may be connected with the
measure and symmetry of the Philebus. It is represented in the Symposium
under the aspect of beauty, and is supposed to be attained there by
stages of initiation, as here by regular gradations of knowledge. Viewed
subjectively, it is the process or science of dialectic. This is the
science which, according to the Phaedrus, is the true basis of rhetoric,
which alone is able to distinguish the natures and classes of men and
things; which divides a whole into the natural parts, and reunites the
scattered parts into a natural or organized whole; which defines the
abstract essences or universal ideas of all things, and connects them;
which pierces the veil of hypotheses and reaches the final cause or
first principle of all; which regards the sciences in relation to the
idea of good. This ideal science is the highest process of thought,
and may be described as the soul conversing with herself or holding
communion with eternal truth and beauty, and in another form is
the everlasting question and answer--the ceaseless interrogative of
Socrates. The dialogues of Plato are themselves examples of the nature
and method of dialectic. Viewed objectively, the idea of good is a power
or cause which makes the world without us correspond with the world
within. Yet this world without us is still a world of ideas. With Plato
the investigation of nature is another department of knowledge, and in
this he seeks to attain only probable conclusions (Timaeus).

If we ask whether this science of dialectic which Plato only half
explains to us is more akin to logic or to metaphysics, the answer is
that in his mind the two sciences are not as yet distinguished, any more
than the subjective and objective aspects of the world and of man, which
German philosophy has revealed to us. Nor has he determined whether
his science of dialectic is at rest or in motion, concerned with the
contemplation of absolute being, or with a process of development
and evolution. Modern metaphysics may be described as the science of
abstractions, or as the science of the evolution of thought; modern
logic, when passing beyond the bounds of mere Aristotelian forms, may be
defined as the science of method. The germ of both of them is contained
in the Platonic dialectic; all metaphysicians have something in common
with the ideas of Plato; all logicians have derived something from
the method of Plato. The nearest approach in modern philosophy to the
universal science of Plato, is to be found in the Hegelian 'succession
of moments in the unity of the idea.' Plato and Hegel alike seem to
have conceived the world as the correlation of abstractions; and not
impossibly they would have understood one another better than any of
their commentators understand them (Swift's Voyage to Laputa. 'Having
a desire to see those ancients who were most renowned for wit and
learning, I set apart one day on purpose. I proposed that Homer and
Aristotle might appear at the head of all their commentators; but these
were so numerous that some hundreds were forced to attend in the court
and outward rooms of the palace. I knew, and could distinguish these two
heroes, at first sight, not only from the crowd, but from each other.
Homer was the taller and comelier person of the two, walked very erect
for one of his age, and his eyes were the most quick and piercing I ever
beheld. Aristotle stooped much, and made use of a staff. His visage was
meagre, his hair lank and thin, and his voice hollow. I soon discovered
that both of them were perfect strangers to the rest of the company,
and had never seen or heard of them before. And I had a whisper from a
ghost, who shall be nameless, "That these commentators always kept in
the most distant quarters from their principals, in the lower world,
through a consciousness of shame and guilt, because they had so horribly
misrepresented the meaning of these authors to posterity." I introduced
Didymus and Eustathius to Homer, and prevailed on him to treat them
better than perhaps they deserved, for he soon found they wanted a
genius to enter into the spirit of a poet. But Aristotle was out of all
patience with the account I gave him of Scotus and Ramus, as I presented
them to him; and he asked them "whether the rest of the tribe were as
great dunces as themselves?"'). There is, however, a difference between
them: for whereas Hegel is thinking of all the minds of men as one mind,
which developes the stages of the idea in different countries or at
different times in the same country, with Plato these gradations are
regarded only as an order of thought or ideas; the history of the human
mind had not yet dawned upon him.

Many criticisms may be made on Plato's theory of education. While in
some respects he unavoidably falls short of modern thinkers, in others
he is in advance of them. He is opposed to the modes of education which
prevailed in his own time; but he can hardly be said to have discovered
new ones. He does not see that education is relative to the characters
of individuals; he only desires to impress the same form of the state on
the minds of all. He has no sufficient idea of the effect of literature
on the formation of the mind, and greatly exaggerates that of
mathematics. His aim is above all things to train the reasoning
faculties; to implant in the mind the spirit and power of abstraction;
to explain and define general notions, and, if possible, to connect
them. No wonder that in the vacancy of actual knowledge his followers,
and at times even he himself, should have fallen away from the doctrine
of ideas, and have returned to that branch of knowledge in which alone
the relation of the one and many can be truly seen--the science of
number. In his views both of teaching and training he might be styled,
in modern language, a doctrinaire; after the Spartan fashion he would
have his citizens cast in one mould; he does not seem to consider that
some degree of freedom, 'a little wholesome neglect,' is necessary to
strengthen and develope the character and to give play to the individual
nature. His citizens would not have acquired that knowledge which in
the vision of Er is supposed to be gained by the pilgrims from their
experience of evil.

On the other hand, Plato is far in advance of modern philosophers and
theologians when he teaches that education is to be continued through
life and will begin again in another. He would never allow education of
some kind to cease; although he was aware that the proverbial saying of
Solon, 'I grow old learning many things,' cannot be applied literally.
Himself ravished with the contemplation of the idea of good, and
delighting in solid geometry (Rep.), he has no difficulty in imagining
that a lifetime might be passed happily in such pursuits. We who know
how many more men of business there are in the world than real students
or thinkers, are not equally sanguine. The education which he proposes
for his citizens is really the ideal life of the philosopher or man of
genius, interrupted, but only for a time, by practical duties,--a life
not for the many, but for the few.

Yet the thought of Plato may not be wholly incapable of application to
our own times. Even if regarded as an ideal which can never be realized,
it may have a great effect in elevating the characters of mankind,
and raising them above the routine of their ordinary occupation or
profession. It is the best form under which we can conceive the whole
of life. Nevertheless the idea of Plato is not easily put into practice.
For the education of after life is necessarily the education which each
one gives himself. Men and women cannot be brought together in schools
or colleges at forty or fifty years of age; and if they could the result
would be disappointing. The destination of most men is what Plato would
call 'the Den' for the whole of life, and with that they are content.
Neither have they teachers or advisers with whom they can take counsel
in riper years. There is no 'schoolmaster abroad' who will tell them of
their faults, or inspire them with the higher sense of duty, or with the
ambition of a true success in life; no Socrates who will convict them
of ignorance; no Christ, or follower of Christ, who will reprove them
of sin. Hence they have a difficulty in receiving the first element of
improvement, which is self-knowledge. The hopes of youth no longer stir
them; they rather wish to rest than to pursue high objects. A few
only who have come across great men and women, or eminent teachers of
religion and morality, have received a second life from them, and have
lighted a candle from the fire of their genius.

The want of energy is one of the main reasons why so few persons
continue to improve in later years. They have not the will, and do not
know the way. They 'never try an experiment,' or look up a point
of interest for themselves; they make no sacrifices for the sake of
knowledge; their minds, like their bodies, at a certain age become
fixed. Genius has been defined as 'the power of taking pains'; but
hardly any one keeps up his interest in knowledge throughout a whole
life. The troubles of a family, the business of making money, the
demands of a profession destroy the elasticity of the mind. The waxen
tablet of the memory which was once capable of receiving 'true thoughts
and clear impressions' becomes hard and crowded; there is not room
for the accumulations of a long life (Theaet.). The student, as years
advance, rather makes an exchange of knowledge than adds to his stores.
There is no pressing necessity to learn; the stock of Classics or
History or Natural Science which was enough for a man at twenty-five is
enough for him at fifty. Neither is it easy to give a definite answer to
any one who asks how he is to improve. For self-education consists in a
thousand things, commonplace in themselves,--in adding to what we are
by nature something of what we are not; in learning to see ourselves as
others see us; in judging, not by opinion, but by the evidence of facts;
in seeking out the society of superior minds; in a study of lives and
writings of great men; in observation of the world and character; in
receiving kindly the natural influence of different times of life; in
any act or thought which is raised above the practice or opinions of
mankind; in the pursuit of some new or original enquiry; in any effort
of mind which calls forth some latent power.

If any one is desirous of carrying out in detail the Platonic education
of after-life, some such counsels as the following may be offered to
him:--That he shall choose the branch of knowledge to which his own mind
most distinctly inclines